Your app is live, so let's make sure
you never lose it! In this tutorial, we
push the whole repository to external storage
and pull it back on demand.
Backup and restore comes down to three steps
. Configure a storage provider, push a backup
, and restore it when you need to.
Step one. We will import an existing
rclone configuration. rclone supports
S3, Backblaze, Google Drive, Dropbox
, and many more. If you already use it, the
same config imports directly.
Storage imported. Your CLI can now push
backups to it.
Let us list the storages the CLI now knows
about. Each one is a destination we can push
backups to.
There it is. Ready to receive backups.
Step two. Push a full backup. The
entire repository, app, database, files
, configuration, is uploaded. Because the repository
is encrypted at rest, the backup is encrypted
too. No extra key management.
Backup uploaded. Everything in this repo is now
on the remote storage, encrypted.
And the backups available on this storage. From
here, restore on a brand new server is
one command: the repo pull command.
All your snapshots in one place. Pull
any of them back with a single command.
Your data is safe and portable across
machines. See you in the next one!